# doi_10.5061dryad.n5tb2rc2c
dataset file kiadaliri-NJB.

In this study, the ecological effects of the road on some physical and chemical properties of the soil, and the biodiversity of plants (herbaceous cover, tree regeneration and lichen) with Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Margalf's richness index and uniformity index Pielou's evenness index was investigated in Hyrcanian forests in northern Iran.
The dataset file including:
1- Information on the physical and chemical properties of the soil (data soil file)
The parameters include soil moisture percentage (%SM), wet weight (MW) (gr), dry weight (WD) (gr), bulk density (BD) (g/cm3), total porosity (TP%), Soil penetration resistance (PR) (Megapascal), Soil acidity (pH) (H2O 1:2.5), C%, N%, soil phosphorus (mg kg-1), potassium (mg kg-1), calcium (mg kg-1) and magnesium (mg kg-1) was taken. This information was obtained from sampling in plots along the line of transects at different distances from the road edge (0, 45, 75 and 105 meters) in two controlled and harvested areas. The samples were transferred to the laboratory and the values of the parameters were obtained based on the instructions. Soil data was entered into SPSS software (Ver 21), and statistical calculations were performed in it. The differences in the physical and chemical properties of the soil at different distances from the road and in both the harvested and control areas were analyzed using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Tukey's test (Table 1 in the article). Pearson's correlation analysis was used to investigate the relationship between soil parameters and the abundance of tree regeneration, herbaceous cover and lichens (Figure 4 in the article). PCA analysis and PC-ORD software were used to investigate the relationship between vegetation biodiversity indices and soil physical and chemical properties (Figure 5 in the article).
2- Biodiversity of plants (herbaceous cover, tree regeneration and lichen) (data biodiversity file)
Information and numbers include Shannon's biodiversity index, Margalf's richness index, and Pielou's evenness index of herbaceous cover, tree regeneration, and lichen. This information was obtained from sampling in plots along the line of transects at different distances from the road edge (0, 45, 75 and 105 meters) in two controlled and harvested areas. Biodiversity indices were calculated with PAST software. Data was entered in Excel and SPSS environment. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Tukey's test were used to compare the value of each biodiversity index at different distances from the road in harvested and control areas. The results are shown in Figures 2 and 3 in the article.
3- Abundance and names of tree regeneration species, herbaceous cover and lichen (data Abundance species file)
The names and information of the frequency and dominance of tree regeneration species (Table 1), herbaceous cover (Table 2), and lichen (Table 3) in the two regions were harvested and controlled. This information was also obtained from sampling in the plots at different distances from the road edge (0, 45, 75 and 105 meters) in two areas of harvested and controlled. After analyzing the information in Excel and SPSS software, the summary of the information is presented in the form of tables 1, 2 and 3 in the Appendix file.
The results showed that harvesting caused the destruction and reduction of tree, herbaceous and lichen regeneration, but the physical and chemical properties of the soil were not affected. The distance from the road has affected the diversity and richness of herbaceous and lichen, tree regeneration and all physical and chemical characteristics of the soil (except C). There was a significant correlation between most of the physical and chemical properties of the soil with the regeneration of trees and herbaceous species. Also, most of the physical and chemical properties of soil have increased with increasing distance from the road. Results showed that the buffering effect of the roadside in these forests up to a distance of 45 meters had an effect on diversity and richness. Also, the results of this study are consistent with the fact that the road affects the biodiversity and properties of the forest soil.
